all right so these are the newly
announced XPS 17 and XPS 15 from Dell
the XPS 17 is brand new like they've
never had an XPS 17 that was metal and
carbon fiber they had some really old
school stuff like ten years ago but this
is the first time we've seen a 17 inch
device from Dell that is made in this
kind of form factor and this kind of
design aesthetic it's something special
and the 15-inch has finally been
redesigned this is something that's been
around for like four or five years where
they just kind of kept refreshing it
over and over again it's brand new this
year fully re-engineered from the bottom
up and we're gonna get into both of them
now these are both engineering samples
I've had them for about a week I've been
up to play with them and we'll just
we'll go in okay 17 inch model we'll
start here because this is the thing
that's got me super excited this is
their flagship laptop it's gonna be the
king of the XPS lineup and it looks very
similar in terms of design aesthetic to
the XPS 13 it's just a lot bigger
because it's a 17 inch screen but the 13
the 15 and the 17 all have this kind of
angled design aesthetic to them and
they're all built from unibody chassis
so they're built from a single block of
aluminum that's kind of milled out with
a CNC machine it just gives like
strength and rigidity and a particular
aesthetic to the devices now the 17-inch
model and the 15-inch but particularly
with the 17 the most striking thing this
year is the screen it's a 17 inch panel
1080p or 4k but both panels are super
bright at 500 nits good color accuracy
this one is a 4k panel and it's awesome
like the panel itself is really nice
it's vibrant its sharp its touchscreen
it's got all the good stuff that you
would expect on a high-end 4k panel and
it's also a 16 by 10 aspect ratio so
it's a little more vertical space for
people whose workflow or apps can make
use of that but the real kicker here is
the bezel it's super thin the whole way
around like the top the sides the bottom
it's essentially fully screened
there's no chin there's no forehead it's
very clean and when I did my first XPS
13 review that was a device that was
very special for its time like when that
first came out the entire industry was
making devices with thick bezels around
the laptop screens so that XPS 13 really
stood out and I think it started to
shape the way that laptops were made
like manufacturers start to understand
that people wanted this not just for a
design aesthetic right
obviously this looks nicer with a
thinner bezel but it actually makes
devices smaller like when you can fit a
17 inch screen into a smaller footprint
like this the whole device becomes
smaller like this is a smaller laptop
than a lot of 15-inch devices like the
actual footprint of this thing is
smaller than like half of the 15-inch
laptops out there right now it's pretty
crazy the trim is so small in the bottom
that if you look at it at the right
angle you can't see any bottom bezel at
all it looks like the screen just pops
out at the back of the keyboard now it
still has a webcam up top it's a 720p
cam and it does support Windows hello
for face logins so they've been able to
pack an infrared camera into that top
bezel the keyboard has also been
reworked it's not a Maglev keyboard or
anything it's just kind of like a
standard layout XPS keyboard it feels
nice 1.3 millimeter travel it's got some
bigger keys than before about 10% bigger
than the previous model and this
keyboard is shared between the two
models so the XPS 17 and the 15 used the
exact same keyboard very easy layout to
get used to I think a lot of people will
enjoy this keyboard the one thing that
you should take note of in case you're
used to older xks keyboards the page up
and page down Keys no longer have
dedicated keys for them you hit function
up and down to access that so if you're
someone that used that frequently you're
gonna have to get used to this on these
new devices there's also a fingerprint
sensor on the top right of the keyboard
so if you don't want to use your facial
biometrics to login you can use your
fingerprint and the keyboard deck is
also slightly different this year it's
still carbon fiber it's got that like
nice soft resin feel to it this is
something I really like this is a
material that if you've never used an
XPS device before this is one of its
best features like that carbon fiber
weave is nice to look at it's durable
and it feels awesome but they've changed
the layout of it slightly so it's got
carbon on the top and bottom area of the
deck but the sides of the keyboard are
just plain plastic and those house these
new speakers so these are significantly
improved from the older XPS 15 this is
something I complained about in
basically every single XPS 15 review
have done over the past four years these
are so much better than the old ones
their top firing so there's a pair of
firing up and there's also a pair of
firing down and they sound way better
they still don't sound as good as a 16
inch MacBook Pro though
I really like the carbon fiber material
but it would be awesome if they would
just match the front material as well
not necessarily made at a fiber but just
to have like a black front you can get
skins from I use D brand ones which look
pretty good but if this thing was fully
black with like a black trim
that'd be on another level okay so the
inside the trackpad they have a much
bigger one this year but in terms of how
it tracks and how it feels mechanically
it's very similar to the previous
generation which is a good thing because
they've always had a decent track pad on
the XPS lineup in terms of ports so we
got for use BC that supports in about
three and there's also an increasingly
rare SD card reader so if you're a
photographer or videographer and you
want access to your media it's built
right into the device now this guy does
not have an HDMI port anymore so all the
older XPS 15 s have had them but this
device now has a adapter that has both
the USB a and an HDMI out in one adapter
but that thing did not come with these
engineering samples all right so to
power both of these they use a hundred
thirty watt adapter that connects over a
USB C but you can use some lower water
stuff if you want to to charge these
devices alright let's take a look at the
inside the XPS 17 has two nvm ease both
upgradable it's got two RAM slots also
upgradeable the Wi-Fi card is big Don so
you can't swap that any of your standard
big boy 97 watt hour battery but the
beauty of this device is its new thermal
system the XPS 17 now runs a vapor
chamber a way more efficient way of
removing heat from this laptop now this
is an early engineering sample but from
what I've seen from my benchmarks and
gameplay this is very impressive like
this is so much better than anything
we've ever seen from Dells XPS lineup it
is really good so the XPS 17 is running
these 10th Gen Intel chips up to an 8
core it's also running up to an RT X
2060 max Q I believe this device starts
at $1500 here's the thing it is not a
gaming laptop as powerful as this
hardware is I think a lot of people
look at the stuff and they're like
that's a gaming laptop because it's got
an Nvidia card in it it isn't I mean
they don't mark it like that so I
wouldn't expect a device like this to
compete with like a thick board gaming
laptop but it is very impressive and I'm
considering switching to this machine as
my daily driver okay enough with the XPS
17 suck but the XPS 15 this machine is
also very impressive this year
redesigned revamped it's very similar in
design to be 17 and 13 it's got the same
kind of exterior build this device
however has only three u.s. PC ports got
two on the left and one on the right and
only the two on the left support then
about three the one on the right does
not it still has the SD card slot for
media now if you look at the size of
like this is the previous model of XPS
15 forget I think the 95 70 this device
the new one is smaller than the old 15
inch by a very noticeable amount it's
kind of weird that they're able to pack
the same kind of screen size in there in
a much smaller footprint but that's what
thin bezels give you right when you
shrink down that bezel you can shrink
that whole device down the screen is
still super bright on the 15 and color
accurate it still has that webcam up top
for Windows hello and it's all wrapped
in this really thin bezel like this is a
much better-looking device than the XPS
15 from last year this is a better
looking device than like the vast
majority of laptops right now this thin
bezel is so cool
the keyboard is the same as the XPS 17
it's very functional key word a lot of
people like it
and the trackpads also one of those big
track pads just like the 17 the speakers
I want to say that they're the same
because on paper they have like the same
technical specifications but these sound
different I think the 17 sound better it
could just be like a acoustical
engineering difference on the inside
just bigger space in there I couldn't
tell you but they do sound slightly
different they are still way better than
the old XPS 15 speakers though now
inside we're looking at two nvme slots
two RAM slots with baked on Wi-Fi the
battery has shrunk down I used to be a
97 watt hour this is now at 86 water and
it comes in at the same weight as last
year's model they're both four and a
half pounds so this new one is actually
a little bit denser than the previous
one the thermal system on the
Dean does not use a vapor chamber maybe
it's just like a smaller chassis or
maybe they didn't want to sacrifice too
much vertical height but it's a bit of a
shame this does have an improved thermal
system over the old one it is equipped
with a better GPU the 1650 ti max-q now
and it's running their new Gore thermal
material but my early impressions of the
XPS 15 is that it's not as impressive of
a solution as the vapor chamber that's
inside the XPS 17 now you're gonna have
to wait for my full reviews on both of
these devices to get like a final read
on this but my early take is that this
is gonna be very impressive this is
going to be as expected now some kind of
ancillary thoughts Oh both of these are
one hand OpenAL if that's your jam like
you know some people talk about this
stuff like it's like the greatest thing
in the world here's the thing a hinge
like that whole ability to open it up
with one hand it takes good engineering
to do it like if you make it too loose
yeah you can open it one hand but then
it just like flops down and that that's
just a bad hinge and if you make it too
stiff then you can't one hand open it so
this is good to see that on both of
these devices I really really would have
loved to have seen AMD inside these
things like that would have been that
would have changed the game but we still
have these awesome laptops that look
amazing and this is the first iteration
or generation of these new designs right
maybe in a couple years we get AMD
variants maybe please dell can we make
that happen okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs we liked it
subs if you love to see you guys next
time
[Music]